# dsc106_a4

From Theodore “Ted” Logan to Neo to John Wick, Keanu Reeves has had a historic and prominent career as an actor. I wanted to look at several metrics from some of Keanu’s popular movies. One metric that I visualized was the names of other actors who have worked with Keanu Reeves in movies he has been in. For this metric, I visualized it using a word cloud where the larger the person’s name is, the more frequent that the actor has worked with Keanu. I decided to visualize this metric because I was curious if certain actors have a greater affinity of being a part of a movie because Keanu was also a part of that movie. Also, I was curious which actors appeared more often in movies that Keanu was a part of. One famous actor that has worked with Keanu in multiple movies, looking at the word cloud, is Laurence Fishburne. Laurence and Keanu have worked on both The Matrix and John Wick trilogies. So, they have a long track record of working with each other, which could mean that they enjoy working with each other and they have a great working relationship.

Another metric that I visualized was the various plot summaries of Keanu’s movies. For this metric, I visualized it using a word cloud where the larger the word is, the more frequent that word appeared in plot summaries. I decided to visualize this metric because I was curious if certain words, particularly certain names/proper nouns, verbs, and adjectives, were included in plot summaries in his movies over time that would contribute to a possible common theme around Keanu’s movies or if there are any key words that would describe his movies or that may possibly influence a person to watch one movie over another movie. Intuitively, some of the most common words are ‘Keanu Reeves’, ‘Neo’, and ‘Matrix’ since the writers of the plot summaries need to use his name to describe who is acting in the movie. Also, his role as Neo in The Matrix trilogy is one of his most, if not his most, popular role in his acting career. Some interesting common words are ‘machines’, ‘help’, ‘living’, ‘Lord’, ‘Zion’, and ‘gang’. From these words, we can discern that most of the time, Keanu’s movies could include machines, and Keanu could be working with a team (from the word ‘gang’) that could represent the protagonists/the “good guys” (from the word ‘help’). Also, his movies could include some religious context (from the words ‘living’, ‘Lord’, and ‘Zion’).

Another metric that I visualized was the movie statistics of both The Matrix and John Wick trilogies. For this metric, I visualized it using a treemap where a larger value corresponds to a larger portion of the treemap. I decided to visualize this metric because I wanted to directly compare the trilogies of his most popular movie franchises to see which movie franchise is more lucrative and profitable, particularly since both franchises are expected to have a fourth installment. So, directly comparing the two franchises may show which franchise is more worth it to create a fourth installment. To quantify the differences between the franchises, I looked at the metrics of domestic and worldwide box office numbers, each movie’s respective budget, and each of their corresponding profits for both the domestic and worldwide markets. From the treemap, we see that The Matrix trilogy is more profitable overall worldwide than the John Wick trilogy. So, judging from the treemap, it makes sense to say that it would make more financial sense to create a fourth installment for The Matrix than for John Wick. Regardless, both franchises will be creating a fourth installment, so it is an exciting time for Keanu Reeves and his career.

Another metric that I visualized was the movie statistics of each action sequence for John Wick 1. For this metric, I used both a pictorial chart and a size comparison chart, where in the pictorial chart, a larger value corresponds to more icons, and in the size comparison chart, a larger value corresponds to a larger symbol. I decided to visualize this metric because as I watched this movie, I was fascinated by how accurate John was with his shots and how great of a fighter he was. So, I wanted to quantify just how great John was as a fighter and gunman. One metric that I found particularly insightful was that John had a minimum shot accuracy of 83%, which is still really good, and a maximum shot accuracy of 100%. Another insightful metric was that The Red Circle action sequence was the most eventful in the sense that this sequence had the highest number of people killed, headshots, shots missed, shots hit, and shots taken.

Another metric that I visualized was the movie statistics for some of Keanu’s well-known movies. For this metric, I visualized it using a treemap where a larger value corresponds to a larger portion of the treemap. I decided to visualize this metric because I wanted to directly compare the metrics of each movie to see if there are any movies since The Matrix trilogy that have gone on to perform better in Keanu’s career. To quantify the differences between the franchises, I looked at the metrics of domestic and worldwide box office numbers, each movie’s respective budget, and each of their corresponding profits for both the domestic and worldwide markets. From the treemap, we see that Toy Story 4 is the most profitable movie in Keanu’s career overall worldwide. Interestingly enough, Toy Story 4 was released earlier this year, meaning The Matrix Reloaded was the most profitable movie in Keanu’s career until this year when Toy Story 4 came out.

Another interesting note of Keanu’s career is that he has also done TV commercials early on in his career and is now in Netflix original programming with Always Be My Maybe and Between Two Ferns: The Movie and in the video game Cyberpunk 2077 coming out next year. In addition, he is working on the third installment of the Bill and Ted franchise, which is called Bill and Ted Face the Music, is filming a role in The SpongeBob Movie: Sponge on the Run, and is in pre-production for The Matrix 4 and John Wick: Chapter 4. Ultimately, Keanu is branching out to other forms of media, and his career will continue to grow in the coming years.
